Do I think any of these wearables are a
sustainable business model longer term?
No. It's always a question of timing,
right? I think a lot of times a familiar
product investors on the retail side
like to get involved because it's
something that they know and they have
understanding of the look and feel.
>> Hi Miriam.
>> Hi Telus.
>> So in today's show we're going to be
talking about one hit wonders. Actually,
that topic got me thinking. Uh, this
weekend uh at a movie theater near us,
they were showing the movie Ferris
Buer's Day Off, which is an all-time
favorite of mine. But interestingly, and
I did not go to see this, so don't ask
me if it was good. They had a little
mini movie. They'd made a little
documentary about
>> the band behind that that song in the
movie Oh Yeah. Remember that's it was
ubiquitous at the time. Oh yeah.
>> Oh,
>> it's a band called Yellow. And
apparently they had a whole big
following. It was a big phenomenon. I
wasn't too young for the phenomenon
song.
>> Well, that's the only song everyone
knows of. So that's what got me thinking
about one hit wonders.
>> But we're not talking about that kind of
one hit wonder on today's show. No,
we're talking about a different kind of
one hit wonder, which are one hit IPO
wonders. Uh you might think of a company
like Bird,
>> the scooter company,
>> electric scooters. You might think about
Pelaton, maker of the fancy exercise
bike
>> that everyone bought during CO. everyone
bought during co and then never again.
You know, speaking colloquially, uh
Fitbit, uh we can all name companies
that had a great hit product and then
went public and didn't really make it as
a public company. They either fizzled or
got acquired at a price lower than where
they went public. But despite that long
history, people keep trying to do this.
And so, of course, as we're looking at
the markets today, there are is a new
generation of companies trying to go
public on the success of a hit product
and pitching that as a big sustainable
business. And the one that's on our
minds in particular this week is Aura,
the maker of the bioscience health
tracking ring. They have uh put in the
filings to potentially do an IPO. And
then we've also reported that Whoop,
which makes a bracelet uh type device,
maybe kind of similar to a Fitbit, is
thinking and planning an IPO itself.
>> All right. So, we're going to have a
conversation with a uh with an analyst
uh about whether or not these one-hit
wonders are maybe going to do a little
differently or better than past IPOs of
of hot consumer companies.
>> Yeah. Can they buck the trend, I think,
is the really big question.
>> Because some do. Some do. Not every
company uh doesn't hit that escape
velocity of becoming like a big
sustainable business.
>> That's going to be really interesting.
But first, I think we need to talk about
what happened in the market this past
week with the big tech stocks.
>> Yeah, the market's kind of been a little
all over the place with AI related stuff
this week. Early in the week, we saw big
price plunges for Samsung and SKH. Those
are two of the companies behind South
Korea's own AI boom, which by the way,
the journal's been doing some great
coverage of kind of uh uh you know,
economies across Asia that have been
feeling like this gigantic wealth
creation from what's going on in the
market in AI. But then later in the
week, Micron stock surged after it
reported blockbuster earnings, you know,
quadruple uh revenue growth and stuff.
Uh that also helped a rebound in SKH
Heinix's stock as well. Uh and then on
top of that you had Apple saying that it
was going to raise the price of MacBooks
to reflect the fact that uh AI is buying
up all the memory and so memory costs
are going up. So uh you know I don't
know if the worry has been taken out of
the market but I I don't think that this
is the
>> this was the week that the trade unwound
and this is the end of of that trade. I
just don't think we're at that point
yet.
>> I don't think so either. I mean, we're
really kind of going back and forth.
Like, tell us, you were so preient on
that episode with Kevin Kohari and John
Wild talking about, you know, the hidden
costs of the AI infrastructure buildout
and how it's not showing up in cash flow
statements because the market seemed to,
you know, wake up to that this past
week.
>> Yeah. the the worry about can can
companies actually afford this giant
buildout of data centers hiring
engineers uh developing new AI based
products you know it's going to cost
trillions of dollars and who's going to
pay for that uh whose pocket does it
come out of uh I think the market was a
little bit spooked when SpaceX came to
the market to raise a bunch of debt uh
this past week right after it went
public now I don't think the market
should have been that surprised because
if you'd read the IPO perspectus you'd
know that they'd borrowed some money
from their banks they needed to repay
back.
>> So they already told investors they were
going to be doing this basically.
>> Yeah. But you know as is often the case
in the market you know uh nobody read
the fine print and then when the when
the news came people said wait a second
even SpaceX needs to raise money and and
and among the reasons was because it has
negative free cash flow. It isn't
generating money currently in its
business that it can reinvest. So it
needs to go out and get it from the
market. But as you and Kevin and John
discussed, this is happening even with
companies like Meta and Alphabet, very
deep pocketed profitable companies that
are having to tap the debt markets in
order to finance their AI buildout.
>> Well, and also the equity markets too.
You had Google's giant stock sale and
that in particular is something that
might really kind of worry some
investors because stocks are like
anything else. There's supply and demand
and we know about the demand side of the
market. We talk about that all the time.
And the supply side is well, who's
selling shares? And so if more supply is
coming, what does that mean to the
clearing price of the market?
>> And another thing you guys talked about
on the episode which I thought was so
interesting was, you know, how companies
are actually laying people off, you
know, potentially in order to free up
cash to finance the AI buildout. And we
saw perhaps an example of that this past
week with Oracle announcing a big
layoff. Um, you know, I think the
instinct is to say, "Oh, these people
are being laid off because their jobs
are being replaced by AI, but it's
actually not quite that. It's that
they're being laid off so that AI
infrastructure can be built, which may
then someday replace their their jobs, I
guess.
>> That's a really interesting way of
framing it, Miriam. I do think that is
the one one of the many trillion dollar
questions in the market today is when
companies say we're doing layoffs. Is it
because AI is starting to achieve some
of the efficiencies? We know that when
block for example did a large layoff
that was part of the rationale that they
gave that they are using more automation
in their business. Uh but I do think
there's still a lot of skepticism that
maybe these are uh just opportunities
for companies to cut some of the fat and
again free up more of their resources to
invest in AI in the hopes that it gets
that efficiency. And so maybe these
layoffs are maybe putting the cart
before the horse and represent kind of a
risky move rather than a sure bet on hey
we're saving a lot of money here. In
both cases though, it results in some
people losing their jobs and and that
adds to concerns about sort of the
overall health of the economy despite
this geyser of money coming from
everybody investing in AI.
>> Totally. And speaking of jobs, um this
coming week we have a jobs report. So it
will be interesting to see if any any of
this um AI related spending and layoffs
are showing up in in that report. Um, so
far the job market has looked pretty
healthy.
>> Well, and I I know the jobs reports are
hard to read. We've talked a ton about
this on this show because there's the
population element. Is the economy
losing people? And so therefore, it
doesn't have to create a lot of jobs to
have full employment. So, I don't know
how much we'll really get out of this
one particular report, but I do want to
call out that in the wake of the way
that Kevin Worsh, the new chair of the
Fed, has been talking about how the
Fed's going to go about doing business.
And by that, I mean the Fed is not going
to give a lot of hints and guidance
about likely next rate moves, which
means that the market will have to read
a lot more into economic data to figure
out how that might influence the Fed.
And so I think there's a case to be made
that economic data could be an even
bigger source of kind of market trading
and volatility than it normally is. Uh
so you know whatever is in this report
will be parsed.
>> I mean the market always looks at these
things closely but but but it could it
it it could drive even more volatility
than we're used to. Well, speaking of
jobs, somebody got a new job recently,
and that is the new CEO of the company,
formerly known as Allirds. Now,
remember, Allirds made shoes. U this one
specific kind of mesh type of shoe that
was worn a lot in Silicon Valley.
>> It was a hot thing for not just No, Wall
Street too. Remember, bankers started
wearing Alberts.
>> They were very comfortable. I mean,
presumably I never wore them. I would
not be caught dead in those. Sorry.
Well, and listen, give them credit for
noticing that like everybody now wears
sneakers, but the Allird product itself
did not was not a runaway hit uh over
time that people expected it to be. So,
the company staying power, it didn't
have staying power. So, they sold their
footwear assets and they announced in
April that they would pivot their
business to AI infrastructure.
There you go. It seems to be a hot theme
these days. But really, that is kind of
a desperation move, I have to say. Well,
or it's a smart defensive pivot. You
know,
>> if you can make it AI, it might sell to
the market.
>> And I think that that is going to be
part of getting back to the theme that
we started the show at companies that
are going to go public with a product
that they will likely position as
somehow benefiting from or driving AI
adoption. And in the case of things like
Aura or Whoop, things that are producing
data about your body, and you can
imagine that that could potentially be a
very big business if people really make
AI part of their daily habits and use
these devices to monitor their health.
>> Well, that sounds all well and good,
Telus. But our guest today, Stephanie
Davis, uh, has a bit of a different
take. I would say a maybe a more
realistic or you could say pessimistic
take on the potential fate of these
companies. trying to look at the bright
side of things once in a while.
>> Stephanie is a former research analyst
at a bank where she followed these
health tech companies and she now is a
consultant and advises health tech
firms. So I think she has a lot of
knowledge about this area and she's seen
the graveyard of companies that have
littered the past. U Stephanie also has
a new podcast of her own coming out
called Rounds that is going to be
focused specifically on this area. But
we wanted to get a little sneak peek of
some of the stuff that that that she
might be thinking about here on our own
show.
>> That's right.
>> Well, we're going to have that
conversation with Stephanie Davis after
the break.
>> Stephanie Davis, welcome to Take on the
Week.
>> Thank you so much for having me here.
>> So, earlier this year, Aura filed
confidentially for an IPO. They make the
Aura Ring, which a lot of people have.
And as of last October, the company was
valued at 11 billion dollar. That is a
really big company.
>> A lot of rings.
>> Yeah, it's a lot of rings.
>> And Orura said it was on track for 1
billion in revenue in 2025. Now, we
don't know its exact numbers yet, but
what are the components do we think of
its business? Well, I think they really
tapped into the wealthy well, right?
They had a a better form factor, the
ring, versus a lot of folks had a clip
or a bracelet or a watch. Um, it's
easier to wear the ring all the time.
They had a longer battery life, which I
I was at a health tech conference. I
pulled folks on their wearables. They
were very passionate about it this past
week. And a lot of folks said that the
battery life for Aura meant they could
wear for multiple days. They could get
all their sleeping data.
>> Battery life is really important.
>> And I mean, you probably see this in the
meetings you're in. It really appeals to
the high end of the market, which has a
lot more dollars to spend on different
wellness tech, but from what I can tell
from the business model, it's based on
hardware sales as well as a combination
of software because I have a
subscription model. And how new is that
subscription model? Have they always had
that since the beginning?
>> I actually wouldn't know. You don't have
an Aura Ring, I guess.
>> I do not have an Aura Ring. I I'm an
eightle user,
>> but they've also moved to that model.
And you've seen that like Fitbit when
they first came out, they had a hardware
only model and then they they acquired a
health tech company was one or two years
in or so after they came public and they
started trying to go and introducing a
subscription because otherwise it's
really easy to cannibalize your own
revenues.
>> And that's really the key to the
business model because once you sell
somebody a ring, especially if it's a,
you know, if it's a nice consumer
product, they're not going to be
replacing it every year. And so the idea
is is to get them to then buy something
from you, you know, every month, every
year, and that might be a subscription.
And they're not the only type of
consumer company that's moved to this
model, right?
>> Completely. I think a lot of the
monoline consumer products, right? Think
about the graveyard of them, the GoPro,
the Roomba, um I believe LV got acquired
by Willow, right? Everything that sold
one product and you bought it and you
were done kind of need another revenue
source. And these subscription models, I
mean, it kind of hearkens back to the
software as a service, you know,
business software companies where they
charge a monthly subscription and the
market in the past has valued that very
highly because it's predictable revenue
going forward. Although recently these
software companies have kind of like
developed a dark cloud over them because
a lot of people think they have a a
threat um from AI or that they face a
threat from AI. But
>> SAS apocalypse, right?
>> Yeah. Exactly. And we've talked about
that on this podcast, but do you think
that, you know, having a subscription
business model could be a way to
generate a higher valuation for Aura?
Like, well, could that be a successful
strategy for them? There's pros and
cons, right? I mean, first of all, Aura
has a very generous valuation. So,
whatever they're doing is really
working, but if you look at historically
the hardware revenue streams, they tend
to command a much lower valuation. SAS
revenue streams do have a higher
valuation, but it does cause friction.
Um, this is all anecdotal, so take it
with a grain of salt, but I've heard a
bunch of folks that have used the Aura
Ring, started having to pay the
subscription said, "Well, these insights
aren't that insightful for my dayto-day.
Who doesn't know when they're getting a
bad night of sleep or if maybe having
that extra glass of wine probably won't
let you have the best day tomorrow?"
But, um, paying for that every month can
be a bit frustrating. It's consumer
friction. But then at the same time, I
think a lot of us forget that we have
these charges recurring on our credit
card and we just charge
>> let them go on for eternity.
>> But the bull case for something like
this is that unlike software companies
that are going to be disrupted by AI,
right? Like that's that that was the
driver of the SAS apocalypse.
These companies are instead feeding into
AI, right? like I want to use uh more I
want more data about me, my life, my
body, my health because I want to use
artificial intelligence to then give me
insights about myself. So the case that
these companies might make would be
we are actually beneficiaries of AI
unlike you know just a piece of business
software because the data that you get
from your aura ring or whatever it might
be will then feed into the tools that
you're using you know on your on your
phone to ask questions about oh what
should I be working out what should I be
eating do you think that that's a strong
case that these companies are the the
tip of the spear for for that kind of
bioscience economy I would be hesitant
to go as far as calling them AI
companies, right? I think they're
another one of the many sources of data
that we get, but I and this is someone
who who has looked at healthcare data
for a very long time, but I'm kind of a
viewer of the diminishing marginal
returns of that incremental healthcare
data point. We have so many data points
in healthcare. You have your electronic
health record. You have all the
different wearables. You have your step
count data. And I think a lot of folks
thought that you could monetize that
data at first.
There's a finite wallet to buy that data
and there is an infinite creation of
that data every day. So it's really hard
to get a lot of value out of it.
>> What about in a medical setting? Like
can this data be used to actually
improve health outcomes?
>> In theory it could, right? I just think
there's a self- selection bias. the
folks that are so engaged in their
healthcare that they're wearing an Aura
ring and they're paying that
subscription every month, they're
probably getting their steps in and
eating right as well.
>> They're already kind of health nuts.
>> Exactly. It's the my dad's of the world.
It's uh So, a story I always like to
tell is I'd picked my dad up from a
heart surgery and he said, "Excellent.
We're in New York City. Let's get a hot
dog."
>> Not the best for your heart.
>> Not the best for your heart. He's
probably not wearing an aura ring,
>> right? But you know who is wearing an
aura ring? It's funny. Every meeting
that I go to with people who are like at
the top of their game in the financial
world, you know, people who work in
finance, they're all wearing aura rings.
>> We're all optimizers, right?
>> Yeah. I mean, those are all like type A
high achieving people, I think. But I
don't wear an aura ring. Um, and I know
a lot of my friends don't wear a rings
free over here.
>> Yeah, exactly. So, have all the people
who are going to buy these aura rings
bought them? Is there a risk of that?
Like is there a risk that we're already
at the peak of adoption for these
products? That's always the risk with
device companies, right? I think you
have everyone buys it, it becomes like a
very big trendy product and then it gets
to a scale, you know, a billion dollars
where the company says maybe we should
go public
>> and then the risk is who's the
incremental buyer in that meeting you're
in of another Aura ring. So you have to
have a product replacement cycle.
Sometimes there's slower adoption there
and uh growth can erode from that and I
think it raises the question of you know
how big does a consumer tech company
need to be in order to go public right I
mean we have maybe they've reached a
critical mask clearly they're a big
company now a billion in revenue that's
not nothing
>> to check a cat
>> but um you know is that what's needed to
go public these days as a company like
this and then you know obviously growth
is important for a public company.
What's you know what's going to be the
next leg?
>> It's the the push pull of those things.
I think historically when you looked at
a lot of health tech companies coming
public the hurdle was way lower. It was
100 million of revenues you were
approaching break even and profitability
and that was enough.
those smaller cap names didn't fare as
well over the past few years and I think
you're seeing a lot of folks wait until
they're more of a billion dollar of
revenues and get that you know
doubledigit billions valuation to come
out. At the same time it probably means
that a lot of the growth that happened
happened on the private side and so you
might not be getting the same sort of
growth arc as a public story.
>> We'll see. Like I do think scale helps a
lot. Having a large market cap
definitely attracts more investor
attention as we've seen with SpaceX
>> but uh yet to be proven how sustainable
that is as a IPO strategy.
>> What's a cautionary tale in healthcare
tech? What was a past cycle? All of
them. Give us an example. What's a
company that that was got really hot
tried to capitalize that with an IPO and
then just kind of hit this wall of there
are only just so many more units we can
sell and the subscription business has
its limits. I mean, Fitbit is an
excellent cautionary tale, right? They
they came out at 30 times PE in 2015.
They doubled pretty immediately within a
few months to 60 times PE and then by
the time they were sold in 2021, I mean,
the stock was just straight line down.
They didn't have any earnings left to
speak of. So, I can't even reference a
PE when they were sold.
>> And just so everyone knows, PE is price
toearnings ratio. Most of you probably
know that, but it's a very common way to
value a company.
>> And so what happened to them? Was it
that they ran out of people who needed
one but didn't already have one? Was it
that some of the ideas around, oh, okay,
well, now that we're on everybody's
wrist, here are all the 10 other things
we'll sell them. What was what was the
thing that ultimately led to them making
more sense as an acquisition uh rather
than as a standalone company? You know,
as I referenced before, being a monoline
consumer product is incredibly hard
because then you're really going to be
stuck with a product replacement cycle.
And so, they started releasing new
products, but how many new products can
you really release at that pace? Some of
them didn't hit with a consumer, right?
Some of them were a little too
expensive. Their ionic product was
>> perhaps too premium priced for the
market at that time. Then you also saw a
ton of competition. It's exactly what
happened to Roomba, right? Roomba came
out with a great piece of technology and
it spurs a lot of copycats. Fitbit did
and then they saw some low-end copycats
that got rid of the low end of the
market and Apple entered the high end of
the market. That's a tough one to
compete with. My Roomba is just sitting
under my couch collecting dust because
between my toddler and my dog, it is not
getting a lot of action.
Has anybody successfully taken an early
success? Like, okay, you've got one
product that has sold really well,
you've got a great audience for it, and
then used that either the the financial
firepower that gave them or just the
momentum as a company to continue to
innovate and either add additional
products or to solve the product cycle
life cycle. Is there is there an example
of somebody who has
achieved that transformation into
becoming a broader company?
>> Now, I'm less of an expert on it because
it's outside of healthcare, but Garmin,
I think, is actually pretty
>> We were just marveling at We hadn't
checked in for a while. That's a $40
billion plus market cap company these
days. It's a long way from just
>> that is a huge company. My mom's old
GPS.
I remember my dad had one that he held
in his hand and he would like go hiking
and he'd be like, "This is where we
are." and hold it up in the air. They've
come a long way. But yeah, they they
expanded into a bunch of adjacencies. I
think they had some core tech that made
a lot of sense that they could expand
into other markets. They even went to to
health trackers.
>> So, there's a lot of expansion that
helped them. I think uh flip side,
there's a lot of single products.
>> Mhm. All birds.
>> Finally got rid of them. May they rest
in peace. I love
>> Now they're smart birds, right?
>> These were these were the like uh simple
but super fashionable
like gym shoe, right? I remember
>> they were super fashionable.
>> I remember there was a moment when bank
CEOs started wearing
>> pretend that they're fashionable.
>> They were fashionable among the tech
set. And you're you're adjacent to the
tech world, right?
>> That's how I justified wearing them
instead of heels.
>> They were very comfortable, right? That
was their thing. They're no longer a
shoe company. They're an AI
infrastructure company and they're
called Smartbird now. So really
completely gave away their business
model. They just gave it up.
>> Are there markers though that could help
you identify if I'm an investor and I'm
looking at kind of some of these hot
companies and I might be trying to pick
one that's okay. This is the next
Garmin. they're going to actually
continue to grow and lean into their
strengths or this is the next allirds
where great fat, great product, maybe
not a sustainable long-term kind of
business. Are there any things that you
would look for? Is there something in
management or strategy? What what would
be some markers?
>> Honestly, I think you need a track
record of of innovation and execution to
adjacencies. I'd probably argue that if
you're going to be a public company,
having a monoline product is not the
best move.
>> You should have already branched out
before you went public given all of the
different examples we've mentioned so
far on the podcast. And so
>> that takes time. I think that takes a
patience that a lot of VC back companies
don't really have the ability to have.
And so that's why we get uh we get the
Pelatons of the world. Does it even make
sense for one of these consumer health
tech companies to go public? I mean, I
think we're kind of getting at this
question. Should they instead be
pursuing a sale to a larger technology
company? I've always been a big believer
that a lot of these consumer health tech
companies are worth so much more owned
by one of the large tech giants. If you
look at the large tech companies, you
know, the the Amazons or the Apples or
the Googles, they all do well by having
a superior consumer experience, right?
Why do you use I mean, this is vintage,
but why wouldn't you use Google over Ask
Jeeves? Because Google worked better,
right? Right. Why do I like my Apple
products so much that I panic when I
have them get broken or lost? Because
they kind of just make my life easier.
And so adding a wearable into that
ecosystem increases the stickiness and
the value of what they have to offer.
And so you can argue that while you know
Aura is only making a finite amount of
money from selling you their ring and
then selling you that subscription if it
was owned by someone larger there's a
lot of a broader halo of value that
comes out of it. Mhm. Like they could
connect it to the Apple ecosystem and be
getting the data that you know from the
ring, from the watch, from the phone.
>> It makes you a happier consumer. It gets
data about where you are and how your
health is, which I'm sure has a lot of
different um follow on effects to
different Apple products, like something
like that could be very valuable.
>> So given the fact that we've enjoyed our
walk through the cemetery,
you know, looking at the different
graves, line consumer products.
I remember when that was hot. Why
>> love a good gadget, too? I have so many
of these.
>> They're They're very successful when
they're hot. People love them. That's
why they grow so fast.
>> Exactly.
>> But why then do companies keep trying to
go public to do this? Is there something
about the VC ownership structure that
means that an IPO is just the best for
those investors? And even though a sale
might everyone looking at it might kind
of quickly say, "Well, gee, well that
would make sense as part of a larger
product." And not to not to pick on
them, but for example, Lime, the
electric scooter company,
>> oh my goodness,
>> has recently sort of gone in the
direction of trying to go public. Um, a
few years ago, Bird went public and they
didn't last as a public company. So,
what is it that makes people want to
keep trying to do this even though we've
seen so many others stumble?
>> Not that I would ever call an IPO easy.
I think that would be unfair to all of
the companies and all the the haggarded
management teams that had to go through
the process.
>> But it's a much easier process to exit
than finding someone to acquire you,
especially when you get to a certain
scale, right? How many companies could
buy a billion dollar revenues 11 billion
valuation or
>> and a lot of companies go public and
then are later acquired. So it doesn't
close the door an acquisition
>> and dual track processes especially in
health tech are far from unheard of.
>> Now a dual track process would be to
while you're working on your plans to go
public you would also in the background
be working on trying to find a buyer.
>> Yeah. And I remember from covering IPOs
in the past that sometimes saying you're
going to go public or going public is a
way to sort of force some buyers who
might have been reluctant to say, "Okay,
I'm either going to pay I could pay this
price today or take the chance that this
company goes public and the valuation
goes up and I've got to pay more
tomorrow."
>> And as a former financial analyst, I
spent a lot of time building models that
will never see the light of day for that
very reason.
>> Oh wow.
>> Interesting. Because the deal actually
happened before the IPO.
>> Exactly. I think that seems like an
ideal outcome for some of these
companies because as we've seen the
alternative has been the IPO maybe it
rides high for a little while then it
usually craters and then it gets bought
for much less than it went public for.
So it seems like you know it would be
better to sell before going through all
of that.
>> Agreed. I think it makes a lot of sense
for if you're a consumer tech product
right that Pelaton would feel very
differently if they had sold as opposed
to going public.
>> All right. Uh, we're going to take a
quick break and more with Stephanie
Davis when we come back.
All right, welcome back. As an analyst,
I want to ask you about because we
talked about this with SpaceX's IPO a
couple of weeks ago, and it seems like
this is always a number that people
really focus on and that makes both the
bullcase for a company, but also ends up
garnering a lot of criticism for a
company, and that's TAM, total
addressable market.
>> TAM,
>> what what is it? What is a reasonable
way to look at a TAM? And what is a I'm
really just trying to get a big number
out of my model way of looking at a TAM.
As a financial analyst, what do you look
for that that that tells you this is a
really this is a good number and you
should really take this number seriously
versus okay, this is just kind of,
>> you know, sort of popping up stuff.
So I think taking TAM seriously is
an act of hope if I want to be very
positive on it. Um oftentimes it is a
very large number because you have to
think about the total addressable market
and what company wants to limit their
addressable market.
>> I often calculate my own immediately
addressable market. And so I think
what's valuable in TAM isn't what the
number is.
>> It's probably very big. It's how they
calculated the number and then making
your own reasonable assumptions to go
back into it, right? Like if I wanted to
say the TAM for all birds, it's probably
everyone with feet.
>> Everyone who buys sneakers, which is
most people,
>> right?
>> Yeah.
>> They had small birds, the little kid
one. So even those that don't know about
whatever. So cute.
>> But that just you can really get away
with those numbers. And so I think you
have to go and take a much more
reasonable thing. SpaceX when you look
at their TAM I think that got a
>> a lot of humor rounds from the financial
community just because the majority of
it was AI in which the TAM is you know
anyone's best guess
>> right
>> but that's great advice for an investor
to do one one relatively straightforward
thing you can do is go to a company's
model look at their perspectus and then
just sort of insert your own kind of TAM
number what's more reasonable or just
let's just trim this in half and see if
the company still makes sense at this
price that
>> total immediate market I liked that
Yeah, think about it this way.
>> The Tim, not the TAM, the Tim, the Tim.
>> So, I know Stephanie, we've been talking
about the dangers of being a monoline
company uh in the consumer space, but
clearly there's some big opportunity
here because it's not just Aura that's
chasing health tracking data. You have
Whoop, which if you don't want a ring,
you can get the bracelet. Uh I think
I've heard that there are earrings
coming out that kind of do the same
thing.
>> It's trying to appeal more.
>> Those I might wear. Well, so clearly
there's something in the air that people
think is going to be a big opportunity.
Who do you think might make money from
bioscience wearable data tracking?
>> Look, I think a lot of early innovation
tends to happen the consumer market just
because consumers are willing to pay for
neat gadgets as we've seen from just the
folks here at the table. But a lot of
the true innovation and where things
will bend the cost curve is getting that
into folks with chronic conditions,
right? Getting some of these wearables
and these different devices to folks
that have, you know,
>> chronic kidney disease or or diabetes or
heart failure. I remember being amazed.
I was wearing my Apple Watch and I I
remember used to call it pet rock. I
thought it was such a silly thing,
>> but I fell when I was on a hike wearing
it and it immediately said, "You need me
to call an ambulance."
>> Wow.
>> That was phenomenal.
>> And so having all remember this,
>> right? Exactly. But having all of that
available and on some of our more
chronic populations, like that's a huge
opportunity to go and reduce cost. And
that's something once it's a little bit
more clinical data that could actually
be linked into the hospital, I think
they'd find it a bit more valuable.
Right now, unfortunately, it, you know,
a consumer is required to actively go
out and purchase one for themselves. So,
as you already said, these consumers who
are potentially most in need of this
service are not necessarily going out
and doing that. Correct. And it's not
really linked into your EHR, your
electronic health record.
>> So then what's the business model then?
Is this something that will benefit
hospitals that are going to white label
some piece of technology to, you know,
to to patients that that that need it?
Um, is it going to just acrue to the
Apples of the world that already, you
know, have devices on your hand, in your
pocket, in your ear, uh, and is just
more more of an opportunity for them?
What what who will make money from this?
>> If you wanted to argue that Aura in some
distant future goes into a more clinical
setting, it probably then gets
reimbursed by the payer, you know, your
your health insurance because they want
to make sure that you're healthier and
you're better cared for. Um, I think the
business model is the I don't even want
to call it a million-dollar question.
It's the trillion dollar question within
health tech because so many folks have
tried different things per member per
month fees, right? Different fees
charged to the employer as they get more
employee monitoring. Um, no one's really
found a ton of success yet in a
sustainable model. Mhm.
>> So, I want to go back to thinking about
the investor who which is the listeners
of this podcast. You know, I spoke with
a professional investor about the fact
that we were doing an episode about, you
know, the Whoop and Aura um IPOs or
possible IPOs since Whoop has said it's
also considering an IPO. And he said,
"Might as
>> well get in the bandwagon."
>> Exactly. He said that, you know, as soon
as one of these single product tech
companies files for an IPO, we know what
to short.
And so what does that mean? You know, if
that's how professional investors are
thinking about this, what does that mean
for retail investors? Like how how much
should retail investors even get
involved with these stocks?
>> Look, I think retail investor
participation has changed in a dramatic
fashion in the market, right? We've seen
that with the SpaceX IPL about a lot of
retail investors getting involved and
there often are initial pops.
>> Do I think any of these wearables are a
sustainable business model longer term?
>> No. And that's probably what that
investor is saying, but it's always a
question of timing, right? I think a lot
of times a familiar product investors on
the retail side like to get involved
because it's something that they know
and they have understanding of the look
and feel.
Don't forget Fitbit doubled before it
dropped down dramatically.
>> So you could have made a lot of money if
you sold at the right time.
>> You could have made a lot of money if
you saw at the right time you
participated in it.
>> And you raised something earlier that I
think is relevant too, which is that
these companies often wait later in
their evolution to go public than they
used to, rather than saying, "Hey, we've
sold a few of these things. We think
we'll sell a few more. let's take it
public when we're a maybe even subhund
million dollar revenue company. Now
they're getting to, you know, kind of
S&P 500 grade valuations and then going
public. Do you think that makes their
IPOs less compelling that they're
waiting longer and going bigger? Going
public as bigger companies?
>> I think there's takes to that, right?
Waiting that long means you're probably
leaving some growth on the table, but it
means you're a more established
business. Yeah. How many
100 million of revenues companies or sub
100 million revenues of companies came
public and then realized they were more
of a concept than a true product or
ecosystem. I think that's the message
that the IPO market of today is sending
loud and clear, which is that companies
are waiting much longer to go public and
they're waiting in general till they
have a more established b business
model, which means that public company
shareholders aren't experiencing that
growth or the runaway success of like an
Amazon.com,
>> but they, you know, maybe are have more
staying power or at least the companies
hope so.
>> Well, look, like good concepts are good
concepts, right? Remember when Uber came
out, I think a lot of folks were waiting
for far too many months and years on the
sidelines saying, "When will this come
public?" And it's even if you got in
around the IPO, like you've made money.
>> Yeah.
>> There you go. So, it's not it's not
every company that comes out with a sort
of new model that doesn't make it. There
will be some that that maybe, you know,
hit that next level. Though Uber was
such a big company already.
>> It was it was a very big company. But
think about any valuation you got in for
Amazon. If you got in earlier, you did
well. You're probably pretty happy right
now.
>> But are those days over of being able to
find the next Amazon? Because I think
that's everyone's dream, right? You buy
something when it's a tiny little mono
line and then suddenly it's the world's
largest, you know, you know, retailer,
compute power company. Uh, is that just
an unrealistic dream to think that
that's what's on offer in the markets
today? I mean, AI is changing our world
so much that you're seeing college
students terrified of it, booing folks
and mention in their commencement
speeches.
>> I'd argue we're probably at the cusp of
a lot of Amazonesque moments.
>> Interesting. Well, Stephanie, thanks so
much for joining us.
>> Thank you for having me on the program.
I really appreciate it.
You know, we didn't get into Long Island
iced tea.
>> Long Island blockchain. Yeah,
>> that's okay. I'm just
>> I don't I don't think I even remember
that.